-----------------------
SQL Performance Tips
-----------------------

Always check the execution plan to confirm performance improvements when optimizing your query

If there's no improvement then just focus on readability

1. Select only required columns and not select *
2. Avoid unnecessary distinct and order by. Distinct and order by are expensive and they require a lot of resources.
3. For exploration purposes, Avoid scanning all data, instead give top 10 rows or limit 10.
4. Filtering Data - Create non-clustered index on frequently used columns in where clause. 
5. Avoild applying
functions to columns in WHERE clause. Example select * from sales where lower(order_status) = 'Delivered'
Functions on columns can block index usage
6. Avoid using leading wildcards as they prevent index usage
7. Use IN instead of multiple OR operators
8. Joining Data - Understand the speed of Joins and Use Inner Joins when possible
Best Performance - INNER Join
Slightly slow performance - LEFT AND RIGHT
WORST PERFORMER - Outer Join
9. Use Explicit Join (ANSI Join) instead of Implicit Join (non-ANSI Join)
10. Ensure that the columns used in the ON clause are indexed  
11. Filter Before Joining (Big Tables)
Try to isolate the preparation step in CTE or subquery
12. Aggregate before joining (Big Tables) - Always try to avoid using Correlated subqueries as they have the WORST
performance. Correlated queries are inefficient because SQL execute aggregations for every row.
13. Use union instead of or in joins
14. Check for Nested Loops and use SQL Hints when necessary. Example OPTION(Hash Join) or any other suitable joins
15. Use Union all instead of Union when duplicates are acceptable
16. Use Union all + Distinct instead of using UNION | When duplicates are not acceptable
17. Aggregation - Use columnstore indexes for aggregations on large table
18. Pre-aggregate data and store it in new table for reporting
19. Subqueries - JOIN vs EXISTS vs IN
The IN operator processes and evaluates all rows. It lacks an early exit mechanism
JOIN (Best Practice : If performance is equal to EXISTS)
EXISTS (EXISTS better than join because it stops at first match and avoid data duplication)
20. Avoid Redundant logic in your query
21. Creating Table - Avoid Data Types Varchar and text
22. Avoid (MAX) unnecessarily large lengthsin data types. Example varchar(max) - Avoid This
23. Use the Not Null constraint where applicable
24. Ensure all your tables have a clustered primary key 
25. Create a non-clustered index for foreign keys that are used frequently
26. Indexing - Avoid Over Indexing
27. Drop unused indexes
28. Update statistics (Weekly)
29. Reorgnaize and rebuilt indexes (Weekly)
30. Partition large tables (Facts) to improve performance. Next apply a columnstore index for the best result 