--------------------------
Ranking Window Function
--------------------------

First it will sort the data and then assign rank.

We have integer based ranking and percentage based ranking
Integer based ranking is called top/bottom N Analysis. Example - row_number, rank, dense_rank, ntile
Percentage based ranking is called Distribution Analysis. Example - Cume_dist, percent_rank

SYNTAX

Rank() over (partition by product ID order by sales) - Expression must be empty. Partition by is optional.
Order by is required. Frame is not allowed

DENSE_Rank() over (partition by product ID order by sales) - Expression must be empty. Partition by is optional.
Order by is required. Frame is not allowed

ROW_NUMBER() over (partition by product ID order by sales) - Expression must be empty. Partition by is optional.
Order by is required. Frame is not allowed

CUME_DIST() over (partition by product ID order by sales) - Expression must be empty. Partition by is optional.
Order by is required. Frame is not allowed

NTILE() over (partition by product ID order by sales) - Expression can be numeric. Partition by is optional.
Order by is required. Frame is not allowed

ROW_NUMBER()

- Assign a unique number to each row
- It doesn't handle ties

Use Cases
Top-N Analysis (Analysis the top performers to do targeted marketing)
Bottom-N Analysis
Help analysis the underperformance to manage risks and to do optimizations
Assign Unique IDs
Help to assign unique identifier for each row to help paginating
Paginating - The process of breaking down large data into smaller, more manageable chunks
Identify Duplicates - Identify and remove duplicates rows to improve data quality

Columns used in group by and window functions must be the same


RANK()

- Assign a rank to each row
- It handle ties
- It leaves gap in the ranking

DENSE_RANK()

- Assign a rank to each row
- It handle ties
- It doesn't leave any gaps in ranking

Integer Based Ranking Comparison

NTILE()
Divide the rows into a specified number of approximately equal groups(Buckets)
Bucket size = Number of Rows/Number of Buckets

Use Case
1. Data Segmentation
2. Equalizing Load (Load Balancing)

Percentage Based Ranking
1. cume_dist
2. percent_rank

cume_dist

cume_dist() over (order by sales desc)
cume_dist = Position Number / Number of rows

Tie Rule - The position of the last occurrence of the same value

Percent Rank
Calculates the relative position of each row

percent_rank() over (order by sales desc)
percent_rank = Position Number - 1 / Number of rows - 1

Tie Rule - The position of the first occurrence of the same value
