-----------------------
WINDOW VALUE FUNCTION
-----------------------

Access a value from another row
LAG - Compare sales Current Month vs Previous Month
LEAD - Compare sales Current Month vs Next Month
FIRST_VALUE - Compare sales Current Month vs First Month
LAST_VALUE - Compare sales Current Month vs last Month

Lead(expr, offset, default) - 
All data type can be used. Partition by is optional and order by is required. Frame is not allowed
Lag(expr, offset, default) - 
All data type can be used. Partition by is optional and order by is required. Frame is not allowed
first_value(expr) - 
All data type can be used. Partition by is optional and order by is required. Frame is optional
last_value(expr) - 
All data type can be used. Partition by is optional and order by is required. Frame should be used

NOTE - 
Offset is Number of rows forward or backward from current row
Default Value - Returns default value if next/previous row is not available. Default is Null

Value Window Function (Lead/Lag)

LEAD(expr, offset, default) - 
Here expr is required, 
offset is optional. 
Default is optional. We can define default value or else it will return NULL
Lead(Sales, 2, 10) over (partition by product_id order by order_date)

LAG(expr, offset, default) - 
Here expr is required, 
offset is optional. 
Default is optional. We can define default value or else it will return NULL
LAG(Sales, 2, 10) over (partition by product_id order by order_date)

Use Case
Analyze the month over month(MoM) performance by finding the percentage change in sales between current and previous months
Time Series Analysis - The process of analyzing the data to understand pattern, trends, and behaviors over time

Year over Year YoY
Analyze the overall growth or decline of the business performance over time

Month over Month MoM
Analyze short-term trends and discover patterns in seasonality

Customer Retention Analysis
Measure customer's behavior and loyalty to help businesses build strong relationships with customers

First_Value()
Access a value from the first row within a window

Last_Value()
Access a value from the last row within a window
In last_value, don't use default frame because it will return the same result and of no use.

Default Frame - Range between unbounded preceding and current row.

