---------------
Subqueries
---------------

There are 2 types of Subqueries in terms of dependency

1. Non-Correlated Subquery
2. Correlated Subquery

1. Non- Correlated Subquery 
A subquery that can run independently from the main query

2. Correlated Subquery 
A subquery that relies on values from the main query

There are 3 types of subqueries in terms of Result types
1. Scalar Subquery - When we get only one value. It will return only one value
2. Row Subquery - It will return multiple rows and single column
3. Table Subquery - It will return multiple rows and multiple columns

How to use Subqueries in different location - 
Subquery in FROM clause 
Used as temporary table for the main query

Subquery in SELECT Clause

Used to aggregate data side by side with the main query's data, allowing for direct comparison.

Select column1, (select column from table1 where condition) as alias from table1 - 
Here only scalar subqueries are allowed to be used 

Subquery in Join Clause
Used to prepare the data (filtering or aggregation) before joining it with other tables.

Subquery in where Clause
Used for complex filtering logic and makes query more flexible and dynamic. 
We have comparison operators(<,>,!=,=,<=,>=) and logical operators(in, not in, any, all, exists)

Comparison Operators
Used to filter data by comparing two values

Syntax

select column1, column2 from table1 where column = (select column from table2 where condition)
Rule - Only scalar subquery are allowed to be used

Subquery IN Operator
Checks whether a value matches any value from a list

select column1, column2 from table1 where column IN (select column from table2 where condition)

Any Operator
Checks if a value matches any value within a list
Used to check if a value is true for at least one of the values in a list
Syntax
select column1, column2 from table1 where column  < all/any (select column from table1 where condition)

ALL Operator 
Checks if a value matches all value within a list

EXISTS Operator
Checks if a subquery returns any rows

select column1, column2 from table2 where EXISTS (select 1 from table1 where table1.id = table2.id)

